                                CONSEREVATION OF ENERGY THROUGH HOT WATER GEYSERS AND SPRING




Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth. Thermal energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter. The Geothermal energy of the Earth's crust originates from the original formation of the planet (20%) and from radioactive decay of minerals (80%). We can exploit the geothermal energy in a very resouceful manner.



A geyser is a rare kind of hot spring that is under pressure and erupts, sending jets of water and steam into the air.

Geysers are made from a tube-like hole in the Earth's surface that runs deep into the crust. The tube is filled with water. Near the bottom of the tube is molten rock called magma, which heats the water in the tube.

Water in the lower part of the tube, close to the magma, becomes superhot. Gradually, it begins to boil. Some of the water is forced upward. The boiling water begins to steam, or turn to gas. The steam jets toward the surface. Its powerful jet of steam ejects the column of water above it. The water rushes through the tube and into the air.

The eruption will continue until all the water is forced out of the tube, or until the temperature inside the geyser drops below boiling (100 degrees Celsius, or 212 degrees Fahrenheit, at sea level).



The water vapour comes out with great force. If turbines are placed appropriately at the openings, the vapour can turn the turbines to produce and store ample amount of energy in electrical form.
The meachanism is same as of used in dam, but instead of water coming down from height and rotating the turbines, its the water vapour with great force comes out from the earth surface which does the whole work.


Many power plant has been set up in different parts of the world which serves the energy requirement of the region. No power plant can be set up in India beacause of the geofraphic limitation of the landmass, India does not have hot geyser and springs geographically.
The International Geothermal Association (IGA) has reported that 10,715 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power in 24 countries is online, which is expected to generate 67,246 GWh(GigaWatt-Hour) of electricity in 2010. This represents a 20% increase in online capacity since 2005. IGA projects growth to 18,500 MW by 2015, due to the projects presently under consideration, often in areas previously assumed to have little exploitable resource.

In 2010, the United States led the world in geothermal electricity production with 3,086 MW of installed capacity from 77 power plants. The largest group of geothermal power plants in the world is located at The Geysers, a geothermal field in California. The Philippines is the second highest producer, with 1,904 MW of capacity online. Geothermal power makes up approximately 18% of Philippine electricity generation.




SOURCES: WIKIPEDIA AND NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC CHANNEL
